# 4 Graphs
Pairwise connections -> questions:
- Is there a way to connect one item to another?
- How many other items are connected to a given item?
- What's the shortest chain of connections between this item and another?
|  application| item| connection|
|  -----------|-----|-----------|
|  map |intersection| road|
|  web| content page| link|
|  circuit| device| wire|
|  schedule| job| constraint|
|  commerce| customer| transaction|
|  matching| student| application|
|  computer| network site| connection|
|  software |method| call|
|  social network |person |friendship|

overview:
- 4.1 Undirected graphs: graph data type, including depth-first search and breadth-first search
- 4.2 DIRECTED GRAPHS: digraph data type, including topological sort and strong components
- 4.3 Minimum spanning trees: minimum spanning tree problem, and algorithms for solving it: Prim and Kruskal
- 4.4 Shortest paths: shortest path problem, and algorithms for solving it: Dijkstra and Bellman-Ford

## 4.1 UNDIRECTED GRAPHS
----------graph
vertex: node eg. 1,2,3~V-1
edge: connection eg. 1-2(同2-1), 1-3, 2-3
graph: a set of vertices and edges that each connect a pair of vertices

----------vertex, edges
- self-loop: an edge connecting a vertex to itself
- parallel edges: two edges connecting the same pair of vertices
- adjacent and incident: two vertices connected by an edge
- degree of a vertex: the number of edges adjacent to a vertex

path vs cycle in a graph:
- path: a sequence of vertices connected by edges u-v-w-x
    a simple path: a path with no repeated vertices
- cycle: a path with at least one edge whose first and last vertices are the same u-v-w-x-u
    a simple cycle: a cycle with no repeated vertices or edges
- the length of a path or cycle: number of their edges

A graph is connected or not:
- connected: there is a path from every vertex to every other vertex
- not connected: consists of two or more connected components

tree vs forest:
- tree: an acyclic connected graph
- A spanning tree: a tree that connects all vertices in a graph
- forest: a disjoint set of trees
- A spanning forest: union of spanning trees

### Depth-first search
Depth-first search: systematically visit all vertices in a graph
To visit a vertex
- Marked it as having been visited
- Visit(recursively) all the vertices adjacent to it and have not yet been marked

### Finding Paths: Depth-first search method
dfs: 只能找到,但是不是最短的
edgeTo[w] = v: 表示从v指向w

how to find a path from s to w?
- 在s-->w的路径中, v->w是最后一个edge
- 路径是一个树,树的根节点是s. edgeTo[w]=v是 从v到w

### Breadth-first search
How to find a shortest path from s to v?
- find all vertices from s by one edge, check if v is in those vertices?
- if not, find all vertices from s by two edges, check if v is in those vertices?
- circle, till found v



