# 4. GRAPHS
Overview. 
    a way to connect  
    how many items  
    shorted chain of connections 
    applications:
        - map / intersection/ road  
        - web content/ page/ link
        - circuit/ device / wire
        - schedule / job / constraint
        - commerce/ customer/ transaction  
        - matching/ student/ application  
        - computer network/site/ connection
        - software/method/call
        - social network/ person/ friendship
        
4 graph models:
    - undirected graphs
    - digraphs graphs
    - edge-weighted graphs
    - edge-weighted digraphs  

- 4.1 Undirected Graphs. Depth-first search and breadth-first search  
- 4.2 Directed Graphs. topological sort and strong components
- 4.3 Minimum Spanning Trees. Prim and Kruskal.
- 4.4 Shortest Paths. Dijkstra's algos and Bellman-Ford.

## 4.1 UNDIRECTED GRAPHS
Graphs. vertices and edges.  
Glossary. 
    - Self-loop, vertex to itself  
    - parallel, two edges connect same pair of vertices
    - adjacent, incident if there are negibors  
    - degree of vertex, how many edges  
    - subgraph
    - path, a sequence of vertices, with no repeated edges.  
    - simple path, with no repeated vertices  
    - cycle, whose first and last vertices are the same 
    - simple cycle is a cycle with no repeated vertices  
    - length of a path or a cycle is its number of edges
    - connected to ?
    - A graph is connected, there is path from every vertex to every other vertex.
    - A graph that is not connected consists of a set of connected components, which are maximal connected subgraphs.
    - An acyclic graph is a graph with no cycles.
    - A tree is an acyclic connected graph.  
    - A forest is a disjoint set of trees.
    - A spanning tree, A spanning forest
    - A bipartite graph 
    1. vertex
    2. edge
    3. path
    4. cycle
    5. length
    6. degree
    7. connected components
    8. acyclic
    9. tree
    9. spanning tree
    10. spanning forest
    
###### API
```java
public class Graph {
    Graph(int V);//create a V-vertex graph with no edges
    Graph(In in);// read a graph from input stream in
    int V();// number of vertices
    int E();// number of edges
    void addEdge(int v, int w);// add edge v-w to this graph
    int degree(int v); // v of degree in this graph
    Iterable<Integer> adj(int v);// vertices adjacent to v
    String toString();//String representation
}
```
###### Graph representation
adjacency-list representation  
adjacency-matrix representation  

Depth-first search.  
    To visit a vertex
        - Mark it as having been visited.  
        - Visit all the vertices that are adjacent to it 
```java
public class Search {
    Search(Graph G, int s);// find vertices connected to a source vertex s
    boolean marked(int v);// is v connected to s?
    int count(); // how many vertices are connected to s?
}
```
Finding paths.  
```java
public class Paths {
    Paths(Graph G, int s); // find paths in G from source s
    boolean hasPathTo(int v); // is there a path from s to v?
    Iterable<Integer> pathTo(int v); // path from s to v, null if no such path
}
```


Breadth-first search.  
    We are often interested in finding the shortest such path .
    connected components  

Proposition. DFS marks all vertices to source in time = their degress. A path from source to any marked vertex in time 
    = its length.  
Proposition. any vertex x reachable from s, BFS computes a shortest path from s to v, time = V+E  
proposition. DFS uses preprocessing time and space V+E to support constant-time connectivity  

More depth-first search applications.
    - Cycle detection
    